So let's talk about like what tailwind is,
what it's gonna do for us.
And whether you might like it or not.
First of all, it's normal that this is
yellow underlined It's gonna say I don't
understand what this is.
I'm just gonna leave it
because I don't care.
But if this bothers you,
you can change that in VS
code by ignoring CSS .lint
unknown add rolls, so
you'd go to preferences
open settings Jason, and
then you'd add a line
here that basically says,
CSS lint .unknown add roll.
And then here you'd say, Ignore.
And so if I save that, and this is gonna
be cool, I don't care anymore, right?
You can probably do that
like a project level,
because you don't always wanna
ignore that, but suffice to say,
I'm just gonna leave it off
because I don't really care.
Because we're not gonna look
at this style file anymore.
Okay, so that's everything
that we need from tailwind,
let's talk about the what tailwind is.
With tailwind you write zero CSS.
No more style dot CSS you're not gonna
write any of your CSS rules in there.
Instead, you're gonna use very
small utility classes, or
like atomic CSS as some
people have been calling it.
And you're gonna use that
to style your app, so
basically all of your CSS stuff is gonna
live inside of your components as classes.
This offends some people.
Some of the class names will get
quite long cuz as you might imagine,
sometimes we apply a lot of thing, but it
also allows you to go really fast because
you don't have to context switch
like ever, which is pretty cool.
It's popular.
I'll say that.
I don't always use it.
I sometimes use it.
I've been writing CSS for so
long that I can write CSS quite quickly so
in general I kinda default to that.
My favorite thing is CSS modules still,
like very small CSS files that are just
important to all of your
different components.
That's generally my like default go to,
but tailwind is pretty cool and
I've watched some of my friends just
crank out stuff incredibly fast and
add pieces that I cannot match.
So It's compelling.
And so I want you to go through it.
I like showing these controversial things
to challenge what you think about how to
write code.
I think in general that's just healthy.
Even if you don't end up choosing
tailwind as your go-to thing,
you're gonna learn something and
it's gonna make you better writing code.
Or it's gonna make you angry and
you gonna go tweet about.
I don't know either way I'm entertained.
So, there is a cool VS code
extension called tailwind,
CSS, IntelliSense, yeah, this one.
Pretty cool.
Let's go ahead and drop that in there.
And this is pulled out directly
from Tailwind Labs which
is the company behind Tailwind.
So yeah, Tailwind is free to use but
they have a bunch of stuff on
top of it that you can use.
There's additional tooling.
They have like pre made components that
you can use pre made theming stuff.
So worthwhile, right?
If you can pay someone else to maintain
your code for you I say go for it.
So just supporting open source.
So, okay.
Let's go back to our directory here.
And we're gonna make a new file here,
and we're gonna call it to post, CSSRC.
Make sure that you put that dot there,
.post CSSRC.
Again this is like the babble of CSS.
Okay, and
here we're gonna give it two plugins.
This used to be so
much harder to set up by the way, so
just feel lucky that this is have
a fairly minimal set of configurations.
You just have to tell what
we're gonna include here.
So one is gonna be auto prefixer, and
we're gonna give it no
additional configurations, and
then again tailwind CSS,
with no additional configuration.
This is just so that post CSS is like
hey post CSS watch out for this.
This works the same way of
like our Babel config up here,
where we're just adding
the parts that we need.
Need.
It is bothers you that is not highlighted
you can say change language mode,
and just put this in or you put in auto
detect it'll probably get JSON, right?
Nope, change language mode it's in JSON,
there you go.
All right.
So now that we've deleted all of our CSS,
if you go run your application,
it's gonna look, let's go with
slightly worse than it did before.
So local host, 2,3,4,
probably unsurprising to you but
this is what our application looks like,
with no additional styling right this
is just the HTML in the JavaScript.
So tailwind like most of these kinda CSS
frameworks gives you nothing for
free, right?
It still expects you to
style your application.
It's just a way of
styling your application.
Or in other words, this is a Bootstrap or
a bunch of stuff that's just free, right?
Or like it's not a style system.
It's not a design system.
It's a tool for building applications.
As opposed to something like Bootstrap,
which is right Bootstrap is designed
to be like your design system.
Okay.
So, I'm gonna need you to
suspend everything you think
you know about CSS for
like 30 to 40 minutes.
And we're good with that.
For me it's not hard because I don't
know that much about it [LAUGH] But
just like just take an open mind,
that's all I'm asking you here at
the end of this,
then evaluate how you feel about it.
So we have all of our old
class names in there.
You can delete them or
leave them because we're doing no more
styling on it doesn't really matter.
I'm just gonna leave them for
the most part.
But let's start in app.js.
Okay.
And then the div right inside of,
Same theme context provider
There's no div in here.
That's fine.
We can make one.
So we're gonna wrap the browser
router inside of a div.
And we're gonna say, class name,
equals p- 0 and m- 0.
And so you'll see all these
class names coming in.
This is coming from that IntelliSense.
Extension that we just installed, so if
you don't install it you won't have that,
in general I kinda leave it off because
I don't always use tailwind right?
But it's useful when you
have a talent project.
So p- 0, what does that mean?
There you go it means padding 0.
So I'm seeing that this div here has no
padding and no, as you might guess margin.
Right?
Okay, so
probably can't see anything here but
you can see now there's nothing
between it and the side, that's cool.
Now we wanna have a background right
because we had that nice looking
background that was drawn
by the artist before.
Obviously there's no pre made class for
that.
So we're just going to put
the style in directly.
I'm gonna say background,
Image not background URL and
then you can do HTTP ://pet- images
dev- API's.com/pets/ wallpaper,
not a capital wallpaper a dot jpg.
Let me just make sure that
is correct before I have
you finish copying all that
doesn't look like it is
Is it Yeah, that doesn't like a threat.
All right, http://pets-images Pets images.
There we go, okay.
So, that's why I checked.
I think there are actually a,
b and c in here as well.
If you're interested in customizing it,
so that one's grayscale.
And then see, I think yes,
just like a different palette.
So stick with the one you want.
I'm gonna stick with a So, again,
I'm sure someone is rolling their eyes,
is like are we doing style tags directly
again, didn't we get away from this?
We did not, we're coming back,
time is a flat circle.
Okay, so that is the first one,
P0 and Pm0,
that's obviously margin, 0 and padding 0.
As you might imagine if you want
a little bit of padding, guess what?
There you go.
P1.
If you want a lot of padding,
that's 2.5 rems, right?
RAM stands for root M's right?
And M is how let's see why
it an M is in your font.
And are just stands at the root right?
As opposed to an M which is relative to
whatever the font size is where you are,
so rents are the same across
multiple divs AMS can be different.
By the same token, there are X's e x,
which is how tall an x is in your font,
or I think Rex is our thing too right?
Am I not making that up?
Let check.
Let's see, inspect.
We'll say that the, I don't want layout,
I want changes, nope not changes, layout.
Here.
No, I want this.
Height, 10x,
you can see that'll be fairly small.
But I think you can also make it 10 REX.
Nope, don't make that up.
Okay, so I guess Rex is not a thing.
But rooms are.
In this case, AMS and rams,
end up being the same thing.
Because we haven't modified it.
But I think here, if I say 10 or
font size 30 pixels,
which should be fairly large, right?
And then it ends up being different.
I don't know why we decided to
get into this right now, but
it felt important to tell you that.
Told you this was not a CSS course.
Anyway, here we are.
Let's go.
So, four M's and
PS there's one through 12.
So you can do P0 through P12 and
then at that point,
it's more of like a random
integer increase,
so there's no for
example there's no 13 but there is 14.
So there's 12, 14, 16, 20,
24, 28 32, 36 and 40 and
then it kinda just spaces out from there.
The largest is 96.
There's also a negative, so
like you can also do -m1
if you need negative margins, but
so all that is available to you.
So this kinda lets you just like mess with
spacing directly by changing classes,
which may or may not appeal to you,
but that's how you do it.
So In general you don't have to do too
many style tags like this, but for
things like where it's an image
we have to give it a URL.
Obviously they're not going to give you
a utility class for your specific URL.
It's pretty rare that you have to
go in and throw in a style tag and
it's mostly just for
specifically for images or content.
Right?
That's about it.
Okay.
Good so far any questions?
All right.
Let's do our header.
Class name equals and In this one
we're gonna do all sorta fun stuff.
With full Margin bottom10,
text center, padding let's do
a nice 7, background gradient
And then we wanna go from you can
go from left to right to left,
top to bottom we're gonna go from top,
the say to bottom like that.
So background gradient to bottom.
Okay.
And then we want our grading to go from,
like a nice purple
And it's like maybe,
like a medium purple, right?
That's like a 400 It goes from
like zero to 1000 I think.
Okay.
So a nice medium purple.
Let's go via a pink.
A medium pink.
Yeah, medium pink.
And then we wanna go and
end up in like a red.
So 2 red Again, nice medium red
here you can see all the various
different colors here will
go with a nice medium red.
And you get the nice little
color squares to, again,
that's all coming from the tailwind and
tell us sense.
Okay, with our link,
we have to get this some class names too.
So class name equals, let's make it like
a text and we want it to be pretty big.
So let's do like a six XL.
So that's real big, right?
Let's do like text white, It's nice.
And then whenever we hover,
when you hover a colon, text-gray-200.
All right.
I intentionally made these bananas so
that you can see the kinda the stuff
that you can do with talent, right.
Typically we would have gone back and
forth between our CSS document right I
cannot write gradients from memory I don't
know if you can if you can I apologize
apparently someone has hurt you.
But I can do this from memory right.
This is actually pretty
easy to do from memory.
So background gradients I'm gonna go
from top to bottom, then from via and
to that's kinda English
that makes sense to me.
And now I think if we pop over here,
we made this with just kinda handful of
utility classes and I did it for memory.
Now you might argue Brian that is hideous,
you are correct it is actually hideous,
but it's pretty cool that we
were able to do it from memory.